title: Architecture for large scale backbone applications
author: Jean Carlos Meninno & Jorge Dias
description: Managing complexity with backbone applications
date: 2013-10-11

!SLIDE

h1. Architecture for large scale backbone applications

h1. About us

!SLIDE

h2. Jean Carlos Meninno

h3. Frontend developer at XING

* Twitter: "@eth0lo":http://twitter.com/eth0lo
* Github: "@eth0lo":http://github.com/eth0lo
* Blog: "meninno.com":http://meninno.com

!SLIDE

h2. Jorge Dias

h3. Tech lead developer at XING

* Twitter: "dias_jorge":http://twitter.com/dias_jorge
* Github: "@diasjorge":http://github.com/diasjorge
* Blog: "mrdias.com":http://mrdias.com

h1. A little bit of history

!SLIDE

h2. Browser wars

* Incompatible versions
* Global space pollution
* etc

!SLIDE

h2. And then there was jQuery

* Jquery plugins
* Events
* All by hand

!SLIDE

h2. HELL

!SLIDE

h2. MV* - Backbone and friends

* More structured applications
* Localized event handling
* etc

h1. Backbone

h2. The first attempt

!SLIDE

h2. The good parts

!SLIDE

h2. Models and collections

* Restful interface
* Data and presentation are separated
* Lifecycle events

!SLIDE

h2. Views

* Easy handling of dom events
* React to model/collection events

!SLIDE

h2. Router

* Url handling and structuring

!SLIDE

h2. History

* No full page reloads
* Push state (where available)
* Back button keeps working

!SLIDE

h2. Others

* Not opinionated
* Flexibility
* underscore integration
* jQuery integration
* Fits into existent projects
* It's a small library

!SLIDE

h2. The messy parts

!SLIDE

h2. Zombies

* Events
* Views

!SLIDE

h2. Boilerplate

* Lots of code for basic stuff

!SLIDE

h2. Others

* Is not a framework
* Not opinionated
* Structure? What is that?
* Controllers? Have you heard of those?
* Too much rope to hang yourself


h1. The Challenge

Rewrite the whole frontend in 4 months.<br/>
Previous version was 1.5 years in development.

!SLIDE

h2. The constraints

* Don't screw up by learning another framework
* Lots of time preassure
* 80% of team was backend


!SLIDE

h2. Alternatives Evaluation

* Marionette
* Chaplin
* Thorax

h1. Marionette JS

h2. What makes Marionette a good choice?

!SLIDE

h2. Dancing applications are awesome

!SLIDE

h2. Documentation

!SLIDE

h2. Clean understandable code

!SLIDE

h2. Memory and events management

* Good bye zombies

!SLIDE

h2. Specialized views

* Layouts
* Region Manager
* Collection/Composite Views
* Item Views

!SLIDE

h2. Controllers

!SLIDE

h2. Event buses


h1. Conventions

!SLIDE

h2. Composite applications

!SLIDE

h2. Structure

!SLIDE

h2. XTM Examples

!SLIDE

h2. Data layer

* Models and collections contained in one place
* Events all the way
* Everything is a promise

!SLIDE

h2. Core specialized classes

* Don't try to be GOD (Going Overboard with DRY)
* Patterns, patterns and more patterns

!SLIDE

h2. Directory structure

* Apps
* Restful structure
* Lib
* Entities
* Templates

h1. Q & A
